hey dudes I'm Hilah and today on Hilah
cooking we are making fish and chips
super crispy the crispiest fish and
chips you will ever eat just like they
served in you Old England just like
probably Sherlock Holmes a except
definitely better because I'm making
them and I'm making it with love damn it
we're gonna start with chips part I've
got some russet potatoes here that I cut
up about this size I like them about as
thick as my finger and about twice as
wide but it's a little bit you know it's
up to you some people like a bigger like
steak fries but I think that's a little
too much so they've been soaking in cold
water for about 30 minutes and now I'm
just going to dry them off on a clean
towel the soak in the water helps make
them really crispy because it draws out
some of the excess starch on the surface
okay so then just sort of kind of the
same trick that you use like if you're
making potato latkes and stuff like that
just want to roll it up in a towel and
give it a little squish just to get all
the water off good deal okay we can kind
of just set those aside for now and make
our fish fry better for that I've got
some flour and some baking powder salt
and pepper I'm going to add a little bit
of cayenne pepper totally optional and a
little bit of dill and honestly you
don't really taste this it just looks
really pretty in the final product but
you could totally skip it or if you
wanted to add any other spices of your
choosing that's fine maybe some curry
powder it would even be a fun little
variation then I've just got some plain
old soda water you could use beer um but
I'm using soda water and this is sort of
like a tempura batter and it's just
basically water and flour and then we're
going to add in a couple of ice cubes
some recipes you'll see add egg to the
better but I think that that makes it a
little bit chewy I like this because
it's definitely very light and crisp and
that's what I like and my fish and chips
but I guess it's a personal preference
that looks about right and I'm just
going to add in a couple ice cubes
that's going to help keep it cool and we
can set this aside while our oil heats
up waiting for our oil to heat up to 330
so I'll let you guys know when that
happens okay so you just sit tight so
our oil is hot at about 3:30 and our
potatoes are dry so we can go ahead and
do the first frying and this first time
we're just trying to cook the potatoes
we're not really trying to brown them so
we're just going to put in the potatoes
and let them cook for about two minutes
or until like the all the sizzling
subsides a little bit and don't overload
it too much just because you don't want
to drop the temperature so maybe handful
Oh potatoes at a time not that you could
use your hands to put things in boiling
oil a couple minutes later you can see
our oil for the potatoes is not quite as
furiously boiling as it was when we
first dropped them in and the potatoes
are soft they're a little getting a
little brown but this isn't the crisping
step yet so we're just going to let them
drain here and then turn the oil back up
to let it get up to like 365 or so and
then we'll do the fish in the second fry
of the potatoes oils hot up to 365 I've
got some fish that I cut just a little
bit bigger than the potato pieces I'm
using a barramundi which is an
Australian fish that I am new to but
somebody recommended it on Instagram so
thanks bud I really like it but you can
use anything dogfish is very traditional
but Cod is also good when I was in New
Zealand the fish shop would have like
five or six different types every day
that just whatever was in fresh and you
can take your pick so just dip your
little fish I'm gonna use my fingers do
as I say not as I do don't use your
fingers danger and again you don't
overload it so just fry a couple pieces
at a time and these will be ready when
the fish kind of starts to float and the
breading is nice and brown and again
kind of waiting for that oil sizzle to
subside okay so the sizzling has
subsided and they're nice and brown
strain them a little bit there then
these are so so hot I'm going to let
them cool for here just a minute while I
do the second fry on these potatoes and
it'll be fine like the fish will still
be plenty hot by the time these potatoes
are done just let them go for about a
minute until they look really nice and
brown and oil again is up to about 365
and the potatoes are done super brown
and crisp so excited about those two
guys way more excited than I should be
for health purposes
all right and then while everything's
still hot we want to sprinkle it with a
little more salt you can also use the
same batter the fish better to do like
fried mushrooms or zucchini slices even
done eggplant chunks it's all delightful
all right now usually these are served
with malt vinegar but my skanky old
grocery store doesn't carry it so I've
got some tartar sauce that I made up
with some homemade aioli
I'll put the recipe and a link to that
and then the aioli will be up next
Thursday or this coming Thursday or
whatever sometime in the future and I'm
going to do a little bit of a lemon
squeeze though so crispy oh my god
can you hear that that crunch oh my god
I'm so excited
mmm oh my god so crunchy and so moist
and just perfectly cooked wow this is
better than any fish and chips that you
will ever buy in a restaurant or a bar
or a pub or anywhere I promise you so I
hope you try this recipe and if you have
any questions or comments leave them
below and I'll respond as soon as I can
and remember if you ever take any
pictures of any of the food that you
make from my recipes you can always put
them on Instagram hashtag Hilah cooking
and it will go straight to the website
or you can post them on Facebook or the
new Google+ community for Hilah cooking
so thank you for watching and I hope you
have a great day and have sufficient
chips dudes because it's good for you
not really
you